---
categories: notes
date: 2018-10-06
lang: en
last_modified_at: 2018-10-06
ref: 2019-10-6-计算机组成原理Cache和主存的映射替换算法和写策略
title: Computer Organization and Cache and Main Memory Mapping Replacement Algorithms
  and Write Policies
---

# Caches and Main Memory Mapping, Replacement Algorithms, and Write Policies
## Mapping
The information in a cache line is a copy of a block from main memory.
Address mapping: map the main memory address space to the cache address space according to a certain rule, and load the information of the corresponding main memory block into the cache.
Since the number of lines in the cache is much smaller than the number of blocks in main memory, only part of the main memory blocks can be stored in the cache. Therefore, each block in the cache needs a **tag** to indicate which block it corresponds to in main memory. In addition, an **valid bit** is needed for each cache line to indicate whether the information in the cache line is valid or invalid. The address mapping has three types:
- Direct mapping
- Fully associative mapping
- Set associative mapping

### Direct Mapping
Cache line number = Main memory block number mod Cache total lines
Assume Cache: $$2^c$$ lines, Main memory: $$2^m$$ blocks
$$0,2^c,2^{c+1},\dots$$块映射到第0行  
$$1,2^c+1,2^{c+1}+1$$块映射到第1行  
Low C represents the cache line number, assigning a tag of length t=m-c to each line. When a main memory block is brought into the cache, the high t bits of the main memory block address are set to the corresponding tag in the cache line.
|t|c|b|
|-|-|-|
|Tag|Cache Line Number|Block Address|

CPU access:
- Find the corresponding cache line based on the middle C bits of the access address
- Compare the cache line tag with the high t bits of the main memory address to determine if it is valid
- If they are equal and the valid bit is 1, the cache hits, and access the information in the corresponding cache line based on the low b bits of the main memory address
- If they are not equal or the valid bit is 0, the cache misses. The CPU reads the corresponding block of information from the main memory to the corresponding cache line, sets the valid bit to 1, and sets the tag, and sends the content in the address to the CPU

### Fully Associative Mapping
Each block in main memory can be placed in any location in the cache, and each line uses a **tag** to indicate which block from main memory it retrieves. When the CPU accesses the cache, it must compare all cache line tags.
|t|b|
|-|-|
|Tag|Block Address|

### Set-Associative Mapping
Divide the cache into Q equal groups, and each main memory block can be placed in any row in a fixed group within the group, which is direct mapping within the group, and fully associative mapping within the group. When Q=1, it becomes fully associative; when Q=number of cache lines, it becomes direct mapping.
If there are r cache lines, it is called r-way set-associative mapping.
Cache group number = main memory block number mod Cache group number (Q)
|t|g|b|
|-|-|-|
|Tag|Group Number|Block Address|

CPU access:
- Find the corresponding cache group based on the middle g bits of the access address
- Compare the tag of each row in the corresponding cache group with the high t bits of the main memory address
- If they are equal and the valid bit is 1, it hits, access the information in the corresponding cache line based on the low b bits of the main memory address
- If they are not equal or the valid bit is 0, it misses. The CPU reads the corresponding block of information from the main memory to any empty row in the corresponding cache group, sets the valid bit to 1, and sets the tag, and sends the content in the address to the CPU

## Replacement Algorithms
When using fully associative or set-associative mapping, when main memory sends a new block to the cache, it uses a replacement strategy for when the cache or cache group is full.
- RAND
- FIFO
- LRU
## Write Policies
Since the content in the cache is a copy of the main memory block, when updating the content in the cache, a write policy must be used to keep the cache content consistent with the main memory.
For Cache write hit:
- Full write: When the CPU writes to a cache hit, it must write data simultaneously to the cache and memory. When a block needs to be replaced, it does not need to write this block back to main memory; instead, the new block is used to cover it.
- Write back: When the CPU writes to a cache hit, only the data is written to the cache, and it is not immediately written to main memory. Only when this block is evicted from the cache does it write to main memory. Each cache line has a modified bit (dirty bit). If the modified bit is 1, the cache line has been modified, so when replacing, it needs to write back to main memory. If it is 0, it means that the cache line has not been hit, so when replacing, it does not need to write back to main memory.

For Cache write miss:
- Write allocate: Load a block from main memory into the cache, and then update this cache block.
- Non-write allocate: Only write to main memory without loading blocks.